---
toc: true
layout: post
author: Kaiden Do
categories: [markdown, week22]
title: Big Idea 5.5 and Big Idea 5.6 Reflection
---

### Big Idea 5.5

1. When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog.
   - The different license types in this Tech Talk are Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal, Open Source MIT License, and Open Source GPL License. The Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal license is doesn't allow copyrighting and it is given out for public use. The Open Source MIT License is when closed source can be distributed and the owner wants credit for the work. In the Open Source GPL License it allows the owner to do whatever to the project except distribute the the closed sources.
2. In your blog, summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic.
   - Personally I think that we should use the Open Source GPL License for our GitHub Projects. The legality and ethicality of the sources is that we should credit the owners of the source we use from other code.Music and movies companies have Digital Rights on their content to protect it from being pirated and it regulate their ownership over the content. In this class we can use Creative Commons software because we are using it for education and because it is free for all use. Open source code is free, so businesses don't make their licenses open source, but they need the open source code online in order to do well.
3. Make a license for your personal (blog) and Team repositories for the CPT project. Be sure to have a license for both Team GitHub repositories (frontend/backend). Document license(s) you picked and why. FYI, frontend, since it is built on GitHub pages may come with a license and restrictions. Document in blog how team made license choice and process of update.
   - For my own personal blog I made my repository a Open Source GPL license. We also made the license for the group repository a Open Source GPL License. We chose this license because it allows our code to be open for anyone's use but it doesn't allow anyone to distribute our closed sources of the code.

### Big Idea 5.6

1. Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.
   - The PII I have seen on project in CSP is that we know each other's names, emails, photos, education, and for some, birth date, addresses and phone numbers. I have seen these on project in CSP because we display it on our github projects.
2. What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?
   - I think that we should be mindful of what we put online because of the PII. I think it is fine to share our names and email, but we should not share private things like social security numbers, passwords, and other private things. But these PII may be good for companies to make their websites cater to our interests to improve their website's popularity.
3. Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.
   - A good password is one that has many different types of characters: uppercase, lowercase, numbers, symbols, and punctuation. A bad password is like full words, passwords, pet names, and things that are easily known by others. Another step to assist authentication is two factor authentication. This means that two devices are needed to sign into an account.
4. Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.
   - Symmetric encryption is where one secret key encrypts and decrypts the information. Asymmetric encryption uses two keys, a public and private to encrypt and decrypt the information.
5. Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.
   - An example of encryption we used in AWS deployment is the SSL encryption. And this uses both the symmetric and the asymmetric encryption.
6. Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.
   - I have not learned the hard way with a phishing scheme because most of the phishing emails I receive go to the spam. But when I do see one, I read the email and see that it is a phishing scam. But one time a friend of mine got hacked on Discord and they sent file and I almost clicked it. Some phishing techniques are sending emails pretending to be big companies. Also by hacking peoples accounts and sending links to people they know. 